this guy may not be captain of the
Millennium Falcon but our next guest
could build a lightsaber with his eyes
closed he's an elementary school teacher
from Boston and he's here to delight us
once again please welcome science Bob
[Applause]
very exciting so what are we gonna do
what all right what have you brought for
us chemistry you guys like chemistry
yeah chemistry is sort of as close as
you come to magic right sometimes it
appears to be magic so we got a couple
of beakers here that are filled with
various chemicals this first one here is
actually filled with a little bit of
water a little bit of sulfuric acid and
a little of potassium iodide now all
right so uh Harrison if you want you can
take that little one that's got some
starch in it and you could pour it into
that's also sulfuric acid you just pour
that right in there and and you'll see
we get not much going on there right
right a little bit of a blue color
because this is actually a reaction that
requires electricity Oh a lot of people
don't know yeah you can take those
batteries and drop them in there okay
both of them yeah just drop them both in
yes all right mark there's one all right
mm-hmm
and so now we can turn this and you can
see the bubbles that are coming from it
let's see if I can I can stick around
yeah so we're actually doing is we're
oxidizing this chemical and that is
creating the blue you ever do that thing
where you put your tongue on the night
volt batteries oh yeah yeah that's great
why don't we do that
that's quite a thrill yeah right so now
we've got this yeah you haven't tried it
give it a try um so now we've got this
nice blue right so that's kind of cool
now this is an antioxidant that's
actually vitamin C that's where blue
comes from that's where the color blue
was born
this looks like we should have combs in
it right pour that into here okay
telexes we're gonna try to get the
battery the battery yeah without the
battery right for that as dangerous as
not see that antioxidants are working
and they reverse the Wow so we got that
nice little magical chemical change
uh-uh so now let's switch over now we
have an acid here yeah and I've got this
red cloth that is stained with something
called Congo red okay which is also an
indicator so if you take that mmm-hmm
and then dip it into this acid solution
or drop it or you can just dip it in
mm-hmm woody and then we get our blue
back wipe it in oh look at that
it's not pretty yeah all the way in not
really
[Music]
there we go so we got our blue back okay
that's kind of cool wow it really did
change colors yeah actual colors but the
solution stays clear alright uh Harrison
you can take that out mm-hmm put that in
here and this has a base solution uh you
remember he is a national treasure oh
yeah I know that okay here we go the
base solution and we give a little stir
here watch this we get our red back ah
see wow you're right that is red yeah
yeah now if we want the best of both
worlds you can take that out of there
Jimmy and squeeze it out into this one
which has a little bit of vimal faylene
solution then we get both colors and
look at that
and correct me if I'm wrong but this is
how they come up with the new flavors of
Mountain Dew right yes all right but
wait a second
this is science right yeah it's just
science let me wipe my hand in this
towel here we can take our gloves off
okay take our gloves off um what do we
have next that's the physics oh and yes
Wow
this is and correct me if I'm wrong on
this this is some kind of a sex machine
right now Jenny now now so let me
correct that's probably for the best
Hey so what we got here is a 15 pound
bowling ball with three-inch spikes out
of it the spikes are little unnecessary
but I thought they'd be kind of cool
okay all right and uh underneath that we
have a ceramic Pago like a little piggy
bank yes we've seen right yeah yes so
here's what we're gonna do I'm just
gonna make sure that's lined up there we
go
so we're gonna do it first a test of
gravity here I want to make sure
gravity's still working so uh Harrison
you want to if you want to come back
here
yeah all right yeah keep those on for
the Momo all right yeah keep them on yes
we know a speech safer now this is gonna
be a little bit ahead
all right so focus focus
all right here we go so now what we're
gonna do is on the count of three we're
gonna drop that know we're gonna be have
gravity effects that would break the
piggy back it might do that are you okay
with that
it's not my kids so I'm quieter here we
go you ready here we go three two what
[Music]
you're right it did work yeah buddy
works all right
great you have all we have an instant
replay here I'm gonna look at just so we
can prove the effect on something heavy
on something fragile look at that all
right so now we're gonna make we're
gonna do the same thing but we're gonna
make one little change all right all
right so I'm just gonna put a little
about a two pound bag on here that's the
only thing we're gonna change but
instead of a piggy bank I went around
your office today and I asked them what
is something that is really valuable to
Jimmy and and they came up with it over
there I don't know if you want to bring
that over Oh what is this
oh no no no no no this is my Soul Train
award so we're gonna put that right down
here better not smash this
I won the sale of the Year 2015
yeah yeah it's a good year that was a
great year for white people especially
this one yeah all right careful doping
this means you're not gonna break this
well so here's what should happen okay
I'm gonna drop this again wantonness
there we go that's the same length as
the last rank everything's the same this
doesn't seem like it's gonna be good for
me
now if all goes well yes this bag will
create enough centripetal force that it
will actually as it falls stop it in the
path okay
then hopefully friction will continue to
wrap around that upper Pole and keep it
in place if not I am going to sue you so
let's go right now I'm a little afraid
all right here we go you ready oh yeah -
what whoa whoa that was close
you did hit it yeah no it's fine what
it's fine
[Applause]
you're gonna drop it
let's look at an instant replay to show
what happens when something doesn't get
crushed yeah you did come a little bit
close for my liking alright we're gonna
take a break and what are we gonna do
when we come back I've done something
big and engineering and could be messy
okay very good we'll be back with
science Bobby Harrison Ford is here we
are we are doing fun things with science
and what fun thing are we gonna do with
science next I are gonna take a quick
look at some engineering okay so I back
at my little shop I have been going this
ongoing battle with that sort of like
party string stuff you know this stuff
that you kind of oh yeah yeah so I I
figured well heck I've got some
engineering design stuff I will I'll put
it to good use
you know there's engineers and there are
innovators that are doing things to save
the world I just like building crazy
things that make people smile well
there's a place for that as well and so
that led me to this wait a minute there
we go
the what do you call this so this guy
this guy instead of shooting one or two
cans at a time as designed to shoot 30
cans at a time so this is a real time
saver that is really a time saver and a
lot of engineering there's a lot of kind
of mechanical advantages as a lot of
testing for example these cans are only
designed to shoot vertically so we had
to come up with a way to make them shoot
horizontally we have to make brand new
nozzles form so anyway wasted time is
basically make people smile okay all
right so I thought we've tested out and
Guillermo was actually offered to be our
did you scare more are you recruited it
yeah I did all right all right so we
don't want your mo to be completely
defenseless so here we're going to thank
you for you all right you are for you
okay and Jimmy so basically the way it
works is you're gonna hold that you're
gonna pull that handle out that will
compress this whole friend thing and
that should start the react okay all
right we do it now I think you guys
ready for this
[Applause]
I'm winning I'm winning
[Music]
[Applause]
sides bok-goo rather everyone go to
science bob.com for more information
Harrison for the call of the wild we'll
be right back with Wiz Khalifa our
friends
[Music]
[Applause]
if you like that video then put a ring
on it click the subscribe button below
Oh